# Thread Dump Analysis

## Introduction

Thread Dump analysis is a tool used to analyze and diagnose multi-threaded applications. When applications experience
deadlocks, thread blocking, high CPU usage, or other thread-related issues, Thread Dump provides the state and stack
information of all currently running threads.

By generating a Thread Dump, we obtain a snapshot of all threads in the application at a specific point in time. This
snapshot includes the state, execution position, and code being executed by each thread. Using a Thread Dump analysis
tool, we can delve into the stack information of each thread, identify potentially problematic threads, and trace their
execution paths.

During Thread Dump analysis, we can examine the state of each thread, such as running, waiting, or blocking. We can
analyze the call chain of threads to identify the causes of deadlocks or thread blocking. We can also inspect the lock
holdings between threads to identify potential competition and deadlock situations.

Thread Dump analysis can also help optimize the performance of multi-threaded applications. We can examine the CPU usage
of threads to identify those with high CPU consumption. We can also check the waiting and blocking status of threads to
identify the reasons for prolonged waiting or blocking. By analyzing the execution paths and code of threads, we can
identify potential performance bottlenecks and make optimizations.

Overall, Thread Dump analysis is a powerful tool that assists developers in analyzing and resolving thread-related
issues, including deadlocks, thread blocking, and high CPU usage. By analyzing the state, stack information, and
execution paths of threads, we can identify potential issues and take appropriate optimization measures.

## Views

### Thread Summary

The Thread Summary provides a summary of all threads in the system. This feature displays information such as thread ID,
state, priority, and lock information (waiting and holding). Thread Summary helps quickly understand the current state
of all threads in the system, aiding in the identification of potential thread issues or bottlenecks.

### Thread Group Summary

Thread Group Summary is an extension of the Thread Summary, allowing threads to be grouped based on their thread
groups. Thread groups provide a logical organization of related threads. Thread Group Summary displays the number of
threads in each group, the number of active threads, and the state of the thread group.

### Java Monitors

Java Monitors analyze Java object monitors. It shows the locking status of each Java object, including the thread
currently holding the lock and threads waiting for the lock. Java Monitors help trace lock-related issues, identify
potential deadlocks or race conditions, and pinpoint the specific objects causing the problem.

### Call Site Tree

The Call Site Tree displays a hierarchical view of thread call sites, along with the time and frequency of each
method call. It helps understand the flow of code execution in the system by showing the method call chain. Call Site
Tree is often used in conjunction with performance pattern analysis to optimize code execution efficiency.